CIT 597 Homework 1
Submitted by Chaitali Gondhalekar

1. If DNS server stopped working, would you still be able to surf the web? Why?
Ans:
DNS maps easy-to-remember host names to IP addresses. One can surf the web by IP addresses of servers that contain the desired web-pages or resources, if known. It will be highly inconvenient however very much possible.

2. What port numbers are implied by the following URIs and why?
http://paypal.com - port 80 - standard port for http
http://mysite.com:8000/index - port 8000 - it’s specified in the URL
ssh://root@cs.berkeley.edu/tmp/file - port 22 for ssh
The Internet Assigned Number Authority assigns official default port numbers for various protocols and manages the root level of DNS. Used above are some of such port numbers.

3. Describe why TCP can be considered as better protocol for Transport layer. Same for UDP.
Transmission Control Protocol  provides basic Transport Layer functionality (segmentation). Also it is reliable, accurate and thus a better protocol for Transport Layer for applications like banking which need better accuracy than speed.
On the other hand, User Datagram Protocol provides best effort delivery so it’s faster than TCP. Thus, it’s a better protocol for applications which give more importance to speed as compared to accuracy like video streaming, gaming, video calls, etc.

4. HTTP is a stateless protocol. Give two options we could devise to keep track of users and their state.
HTTP is a stateless protocol because every HTTP request is independent of and unrelated to all previous requests. HTTP cookies associate a particular user’s browser with information held at the server corresponding to that user’s session. It’s the browser’s responsibility to accept a cookie from an HTTP server and ensure that the cookie is included with future requests sent to the server.
Another method is including the information required into the URL itself, in query string part. In this method, web server appends query strings to the links of a web page it holds when sending it to the user’s browser. When the user follows a link, the browser returns the attached query string to the server.
